updated software_overview (#63)
V1EngineeringInc/V1EngineeringInc-Docs: docs/learn/software_overview.md

# Workflow & Software Overview

> Starting out in the [CNC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Numerical_control) world can be very intimidating, even if you already know about 3D printing (which is a CNC machine, technically).  However, when broken down into manageable pieces it's easy to digest.  In the world of CNC, workflow and software are intrinsically linked. 

Author: I am totally flexible.  Sometimes I am guilty of not realizing less is more.

> Starting out in the [CNC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Numerical_control) world can be very intimidating, even if you already know about 3D printing (which is a CNC machine, technically).  However, when broken down into manageable pieces it's easy to digest.  In the world of CNC, workflow and software are intrinsically linked. 

Author: I am agnostic on this.  To be fair I added this link for two reasons 1. Practice for markup 2.  Once someone asked me when I told them I was building a CNC machine they asked me what CNC stood for.  I embarrassingly forgot at the time.  Frankly if you are a person actually reading this documentation by the time you get here, you probably know what CNC stands for.

> Starting out in the [CNC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Numerical_control) world can be very intimidating, even if you already know about 3D printing (which is a CNC machine, technically).  However, when broken down into manageable pieces it's easy to digest.  In the world of CNC, workflow and software are intrinsically linked. 

Reviewer: Yeah. I think of CNC sort of like SCUBA, LASER, or RADAR. It is an acronym, but no one really cares what it is. This may just be me though. I get annoyed whenever there is an article about CNC and the first thing they do is tell us what it stands for. This is totally my pet peeve though. I have no expectation of others to also care about it.

Here, we will describe the different steps in the CNC milling workflow process along with their associated software components/tools.  The goal is to provide you a better understanding of some of the steps and terminology, which in turn gives you the background to better seek help and explore possibilities.

## Overview

This is the 1000ft (304m) overview (we will explore each in more detail within the sections that follow).

There are 4 components to the workflow and associated software as follows:

| |Step|Software|
|-|----|--------|
|1|Design|CAD (Computer Assisted Design) and/or VGE (Vector Graphics Editor)|
|2|Toolpathing|CAM (Computer Assisted Machining)|
|3|G-Code Sending|Sender|
|4|Milling|Controller/Firmware|

TODO Insert a diagram showing the workflow.

> [Design/CAD/Vector Graphics Editor](#design-cad-vge)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Design](#design)
```

> :   For the most part, you are either going to use your CNC machine to create a part (e.g. a wooden or metal gear) or for something         artistic (e.g. a sign or carving). If the circumstance is that you are needing to create the design from scratch you will likely be       using CAD or Vector Graphics Editor software to do so.  It is worth noting that this is NOT a certainty.  Many people may already       have these designs in hand provided from some other source.  Regardless, the output of this step (and input to the next) is             typically either a 2D file (like a .DXF or .SVG) or sometimes (but not often) a 3D file (like a .STL).

Reviewer: Many of the steps could be skipped. I don't think it's necessary to mention that you don't need a design. Maybe I'm just being sensitive.

> :   For the most part, you are either going to use your CNC machine to create a part (e.g. a wooden or metal gear) or for something         artistic (e.g. a sign or carving). If the circumstance is that you are needing to create the design from scratch you will likely be       using CAD or Vector Graphics Editor software to do so.  It is worth noting that this is NOT a certainty.  Many people may already       have these designs in hand provided from some other source.  Regardless, the output of this step (and input to the next) is             typically either a 2D file (like a .DXF or .SVG) or sometimes (but not often) a 3D file (like a .STL).

Author: I have not proposed an alternative and would agree that perhaps my original suggestion is too long.   When I put on a "super newbie hat" the question I would in theory be asking is "explain to me in 1 or 2 sentences what CAD is an why I need it?".  I just thought the original wording was since and short but jumped right into described the nature of the output files.  If I was a beginner I am not sure I would be clear what and why CAD was potentially needed.

I suspect something in between our two versions would be better.  I have to figure out how to propose that in a review session in github :(

> :   For the most part, you are either going to use your CNC machine to create a part (e.g. a wooden or metal gear) or for something         artistic (e.g. a sign or carving). If the circumstance is that you are needing to create the design from scratch you will likely be       using CAD or Vector Graphics Editor software to do so.  It is worth noting that this is NOT a certainty.  Many people may already       have these designs in hand provided from some other source.  Regardless, the output of this step (and input to the next) is             typically either a 2D file (like a .DXF or .SVG) or sometimes (but not often) a 3D file (like a .STL).

Reviewer: Agreed. Let me cook something up.

> :   For the most part, you are either going to use your CNC machine to create a part (e.g. a wooden or metal gear) or for something         artistic (e.g. a sign or carving). If the circumstance is that you are needing to create the design from scratch you will likely be       using CAD or Vector Graphics Editor software to do so.  It is worth noting that this is NOT a certainty.  Many people may already       have these designs in hand provided from some other source.  Regardless, the output of this step (and input to the next) is             typically either a 2D file (like a .DXF or .SVG) or sometimes (but not often) a 3D file (like a .STL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   The first step is to make or get a design. If you are making one, then you will probably use a CAD program (for functional parts, like a gear) or a Vector Graphics Editor (for art, like a sign).  The output of this step is typically either a 2D file (like a .DXF or .SVG) or sometimes (but not often) a 3D file (like a .STL).
```

> [Toolpathing/CAM](#toolpathing-cam)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CAM](#cam)
```

> [Toolpathing/CAM](#toolpathing-cam)

Reviewer: Is "toolpathing" something people will recognize? I understand people won't know what CAM is, but this is the reason for this document, right? I think adding a new term may confuse the issue.

Author: That is a good question.  Let me explain be personal experience and then you be the judge.  I am not saying this is right, just how I looked at it.

When I first hear the term Computer Assisted Machining I thought "ya, duh, that is what a CNC does".  I think I also heard it in my head Computer Assisted Milling.  In other words, the software that physically ran the CNC (like maybe the role of the g-code sender).  Then, when I was trying to learn, in many video's folks refer to "toolpath".  The video basically say something like "...okay open up your CAM software so we can define the toolpath for the circle".

I was then like "oh, I get it".  CAM is actually defining the path of your tool.  I wish someone told me that from the start.

If memory serves, I found others using that term quite a bit.  If you search youtube for "toolpath" I think its common.

Again, just my reasoning, not saying it correct.

Reviewer: "Toolpaths" or "Tool Paths" are definitely a thing. But in the same way that CNC is a term, that just needs to be defined, I think CAM is a term that just needs to be defined. Maybe the trouble is even in explaining the definition. I haven't seen "Toolpathing" before to describe CAM, and I have only seen CAM and "Slicer" used to define this step. I think one of the major takeaways people will have when they read this doc, and aren't familiar with CNC is what CAM is, and where it is in the process. Even Estlcam gets confusing because it is also a firmware and G-Code sender.

I will also work on getting an image that shows the flow. It will be a simple thing with a few boxes and I think it will make this all a little easier/lower stress.

:   This is the step where you take your design, and describe which lines to engrave, which areas to
    cut out, and which parts to leave. It defines what "paths" your "tool" is going to take.  CAM also is where you will 

>     define what kinds of CNC bits you have, and how fast and deep you want to move them through the material. The output of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    define what kinds of milling bits you have, and how fast and deep you want to move them through the material. The output of
```

>     this step is g-code (in a .gcode or .nc file). G-code is the "language" that your CNC understands to do perform its movements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    this step is g-code (in a .gcode or .nc file). [G-code](gcode.md) is the "language" of the instructions for your CNC.
```

[G-code Sender](#g-code-sender)
:   The g-code is just a list of instructions that define where the tool should go. The software
    used to "play" these instructions is the g-code sender and communicates with the controller. There are a number of options 
    for this software.  Most people have a personal preference along with it being well matched with your controller.

> [Milling/Controller/Firmware](#milling-controller-firmware)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Milling/Controller/Firmware](#controller)
```

:   The controller is responsible for taking g-code instructions and managing the precise movements
    of the motors. There are other jobs, but they are all related to this one function. There is firmware (software on a chip) that facilitates this.  In the CNC world there are many "flavors" of this firmware.  In our CNC machines, the most common flavors are Marlin and Grbl.

> ## Design-CAD-VGE

Reviewer: You're right on that inkscape and illustrator are not CAD. Maybe this section title and above will be clearer if we just call it "Design" and then talk about CAD/VGE in the details?

Author: I am flexible but agree.  You have picked up on the **exact** nature of the change that I was think.  I personally came into this only wishing to make signs.  As such I have only needed to use something to convert or design my sign, but as it turns out, I have never need CAD specifically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Design
```

> There are many options for CAD and VGE. Both (but particularly CAD) can take thousands of hours to master. So we can't go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many options for CAD and VGE. Either can take thousands of hours to master. So we can't go
```

Author: Ya I debated whether to single out CAD.  I was just thinking that Fusion360 will take me forever to learn but Inkspace wont.  However, I think you change is better.

into too much detail here. Luckily, you don't have to be a master to get your hands dirty.

There are two common methods of creating designs for a CNC machine:

!!! note

>     Sometimes, you can find a design to utilize that is already a .DXF or a .SVG. If so, great! You can easily

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Sometimes, you can find a design that is already a .DXF or a .SVG. If so, great! You can easily
```

 - SketchUp
 - OpenSCAD
 - LibreCAD
 - TinkerCAD

### Art Design

If you want to carve out art, signs, lettering, or logos then you'll want to use .SVG files.
These parts have important dimensions and measurements, but they are usually drawn in programs
specializing in art. The most common programs are Inkscape and Adobe Illustrator. In these programs,
you can very precisely adjust the shape to get an aesthetically pleasing design, or import another
design and adjust it.

!!! note
    If you have a piece of art in a .jpg, .png, or .bmp format, you can't directly use that. To make
    it usable, you can use Inkscape. Try searching for [inkscape trace bitmap
    tutorial](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=inkscape+trace+bitmap+tutorial)

> ## Toolpathing-CAM

Reviewer: I liked the previous title better :)

Author: Here is my only important overall suggestion, I think we would be on the same page but let me explain in detail.

My feeling (and essentially the additions I made) are that the steps be described as a workflow as opposed to software items.  Okay, no biggie.  As such each section title should match the title of the workflow step.

So if the workflow step is "CAM" then yes the section title should be "CAM: Computer Assisted Machining". If you guys decide that the workflow step is "Toolpathing" then should call the section title the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CAM
```

without bringing a computer into the shop.

There are many other advanced ways to send gcode. You can hook up a raspberry pi, and use the [v1pi

> image](../electronics/v1pi.md). You can use [CNC.js](https://github.com/cncjs/cncjs/wiki/Electron-App) standalone on your computer, or use pronterface.

Reviewer: :+1:

> ## Milling-Controller-Firmware

Reviewer: I am ok with adding firmware, but I would scratch milling. Also, we don't need the '-' marks. I can fix this, and the links, if you like.

These titles end up in the table of contents, which doesn't show up as well in github. But they need to be skimmable and easily readable.

Author: Agreed.  What I tried to do is basically name each section title (perhaps unsuccessfully) as such:

Workflow Step/Software Used (e.g. Design/CAD).

However I could not get the slashes to work with links in the markup.  I changed them to dashes knowing you guy would say "dashes are ugly, here is what we will change them to".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Controller
```

> The final step is to actually do the milling/cutting.  Obviously this is done by the tool at the end of the gantry, but it is facilitated by the controller.  The controller takes movement commands, and drives the motors. If you bought the controller from

Reviewer: Poetry! :+1:
